the US president has signed into law an
executive order that will shut off
Asylum requests and deny entry to
migrants on its Southern border with
Mexico once a daily threshold of 2500
illegal Crossings is met and he spoke
after signing the order just a few
minutes
ago my fir very first day as president I
introduced a comprehensive immigration
reform plan to fix to fix our broken
system secure our border provide a
pathway for Citizens for dreamers and a
lot more and I'm still fighting to get
that done but we must face the simple
truth to protect America as a land that
welcomes immigrants we must first secure
the border and secure it
now and joining us live now from
Washington DC is White House National
Security Communications adviser John
Kirby welcome to Al jazer John Kirby uh
I'm going to ask you about the US
president's Crackdown on the southern
Border in just a second but I want to
start off with Gaza uh the last couple
of days the American Administration the
Biden Administration has said a deal was
presented by Israel but the Israeli
government seems like it doesn't accept
everything in its own proposal and now
we've just heard Hamas say it's on the
Israelis to say whether they accept
their own terms and and two top American
envoys we understand are headed back to
the region are the two sides really
moving closer to each other or is this
just a lot of effort so the
administration can be seen to be doing
something I can't speak for what uh
either the Israelis are saying publicly
or Hamas is saying publicly what I can
tell you uh for certain is that the
proposal that the president laid out on
Friday is an accurate description of The
Proposal itself it is an Israeli
proposal arrived at after uh intense
diplomatic conversations with us here in
the United States of course and our team
uh but it was an Israeli proposal and
the very next day uh the Israeli foreign
minister acknowledged that publicly that
it was their proposal uh and uh and it
and it was as they described sir I'm
very sorry to interrupt you there I have
to push back a little bit about that
because of course prime minister
Benjamin nahu has said it's not a
complete reflection of what they have
agreed to it's not accurate so you know
there's been push back from from the
Israelis basically so who's telling the
truth let me let me just interrupt let
just interrupt you let me just interrupt
you and say that I'm comfortable that
this is in fact an accurate depiction of
The Proposal the Israeli proposal the
president laid it out in Stark detail uh
he didn't lay out every single detail
but all the big components of it and he
did so accurately and it is an Israeli
proposal and now it's up to Hamas to
accept this proposal so that we can get
the hostages out and so that the
innocent people of Gaza who have no part
in this War uh can get the food water
medicine shelter that they deserve but
the Israeli government is rejecting ing
its own proposal The Proposal that's
been laid out by President
Biden I I I don't I've never seen
anything that says they're rejecting it
I've seen some public comments by some
officials uh that uh that are disputing
some components of it but I've not seen
some rejection of it it is an Israeli
proposal they've acknowledged that now
it's been widely reported that one
reason so little food currently at this
moment is entering the Gaza Strip is
because Israel of course as you know
occupies the Rafa Crossing which has led
egy the Egyptian side to stop Aid
convoys because you know the occupation
basically contradicts the agreements the
peace paact between Israel and Egypt is
this something that the administration
is trying to
change of course as a matter of fact the
president talked to president uh CCE
last week um and president CeCe as a
result of that conversation agreed to
open up uh Rafa Crossing on the Egyptian
ins side and now we have emissaries uh
in Cairo this week and next uh who will
be hashing out the details of that uh
with our Egyptian counterparts right but
will you be pushing the Israeli uh
government to uh remove its forces from
the Philadelphia
Corridor the Israelis are operating they
say and I won't speak for their
operations but they say they're
operating in the Philadelphia cordor uh
to put pressure on Hamas inside Rafa
this is in keeping with uh the
description of operations as they laid
them out for us uh they have also agreed
back to your real question about Rafa
and the crossing they certainly have
agreed uh to uh permit uh food water
medicine humanitarian assistance to flow
across uh the Rafa Crossing but right
now it's closed on the Egyptian side and
that's what we're working with our
Egyptian counterparts on right but the
occupation obviously contradicts the the
agreement that Israel has with the Egypt
and the Egyptians are very unhappy with
that uh let's turn our attention now um
to you know there is been an in
intensification of Israeli attacks
across Gaza uh we've seen nearly 40
people killed today alone including some
who were in a school that was being used
as an emergency shelter now this sort of
thing is is almost ordinary it happens
every day even President Biden says that
people have quote every reason to
conclude that Benjamin Netanyahu is
prolonging this war for political
reasons if that is true shouldn't the US
the Biden Administration press press
harder for Israel to agree to its own
ceasefire
deal as I said the president laid this
out publicly on Friday um and it was
right after it was delivered to Hamas um
and it was a very clear articulation an
Israeli articulation of how this war can
come to an end I can't speak or Justify
what Israeli officials are saying
publicly what I can tell you is in our
conversations with the Israelis they
acknowledge this is their proposal they
want to see Hamas accept it and they
want to move forward uh they want to get
their hostages home where they belong um
and uh they also want to see uh that we
can move forward to a sustainable end to
this to the hostilities right but it
seems like they only agree to the first
phase and they don't want to move to the
other phases but um let's focus now on
some developments but wait but now wait
wait just second wait wait just a second
because you you you raised a really good
point that I want to just ring out with
you it is a phased approach um and phase
one has got to start so that they can
start to negotiate what phase two looks
like it's not that the Israelis haven't
said they're committed to phase two
they're committed to a phased approach
but what the deal says is if you can get
phase one implemented then the two sides
can start to talk about what phase two
looks like and when it can start and and
while they are negotiating phase two
that ceasefire will stay in effect on
the six weeks but here's the problem
John Kirby Hamas doesn't trust that
Israel will follow through Hamas doesn't
think that uh they want a durable
ceasefire
right so what the President also said is
that uh that the United States will
guarantee that we will work to ensure
Israel meets its commitments and the
deal also says that Egypt and qter will
work to ensure that Hamas meets its
commitments as well all that's baked
into the proposal
right now um we understand that uh prime
minister Benjamin nahu was scheduled to
come to the US and to address uh
Congress uh that seems to be a little
bit up in the air what more can you tell
us about
that I honestly can't tell you anything
about that that's going to be a question
for uh uh members of Congress up on
Capitol Hill that this is uh this is
their invitation um I I don't know what
the status is of uh of the acceptance of
it and the date and all that that's
really a question for members of
Congress right is it a good
idea well that's going to be up for
prime minister nanyo to determent if he
wants to come and and what he wants to
say and for members of Congress to speak
to they obviously believed and it was a
bipartisan invitation uh they believed
that it was uh appropriate to to hear
out uh the Prime Minister and again that
that's really going to be for those two
sides to work out gotcha all right so um
as promised want to ask you uh uh about
immigration uh the president just
moments ago signing executive order to
curtail Asylum requests and uh curb
migration why why is this so important
and and you know what do you make of
critics saying you know he's basically
rehashing a trump
policy as the president said in his
remarks on day one of the administration
he put forward a comprehensive
immigration reform plan uh that Congress
did zero on for the entire time he's
been president in the meantime there has
been record levels of migration here in
this hemisphere alone and it's not just
in this hemisphere it's all around the
world but certainly in this hemisphere
alone we've seen more people on the Move
since World War II and we are working
very hard with our partners in the
region including and principally with
Mexico to do what we can to help stem
the reasons for that migration to try to
get at the root causes for that and yet
people are still coming even though
they're in less fewer fewer numbers
right now uh and so the president
explored opportunities that he could
take as president using executive
Authority uh to to try to help alleviate
some of that pressure but what really
needs to happen if you really want to
solve the problem it's going to have to
require legislation because it has to
come with resources and it has to come
with legal authorities and that is what
Congress will not move on but it's
pretty Draconian and a very significant
shift thank you so very much um John
Kirby you're talking to us from
Washington thank
you you're
welcome make sure to subscribe to our
channel to the latest news from Al jazer